MILESTONE-GLUE-VERSION.md, before:

# Milestone: Glue-Based Data Preparation (Stable Version)

**Date:** February 15, 2026  
**Version:** 1.0.0-glue  
**Status:** ✅ Stable - Fully Implemented and Tested

## Overview

This milestone marks the completion of the fraud detection ML pipeline with **AWS Glue** for data preparation. This version represents the original design as specified in the requirements and design documents.

## Architecture

### Training Pipeline (Standard Workflow)
```
┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐
│  DataPrep   │ -> │    Train    │ -> │  Evaluate   │ -> │   Deploy    │
│  (Glue Job) │    │  (Lambda)   │    │  (Lambda)   │    │  (Lambda)   │
└─────────────┘    └─────────────┘    └─────────────┘    └─────────────┘
```

### Key Components

**Data Preparation Stage:**
- **Technology:** AWS Glue (PySpark)
- **Script:** `glue-scripts/data-prep.py`
- **DPU Allocation:** 5 DPUs
- **Timeout:** 30 minutes
- **Functionality:**
  - Loads Kaggle Credit Card Fraud Detection dataset (284,807 records)
  - Splits data into train (70%), validation (15%), test (15%)
  - Writes prepared datasets to S3 in Parquet format
  - Validates data quality

**Why Glue Was Chosen:**
- Native PySpark support for large-scale data processing
- Serverless - no infrastructure management
- Optimized for ETL workloads
- Scales automatically for large datasets
- Industry-standard for ML data preparation

## Implementation Status

### ✅ Completed Features

1. **Core Data Models** (Task 2)
   - Transaction and ScoredTransaction classes
   - Workflow models (ExecutionContext, StageResult)
   - Property tests validating fraud score range

2. **WorkflowLambdaHandler Base Class** (Task 3)
   - S3 orchestration with convention-based paths
   - Error handling for S3 operations
   - Property tests for S3 conventions

3. **Glue Data Preparation Script** (Task 5)
   - PySpark implementation in `glue-scripts/data-prep.py`
   - 70/15/15 train/validation/test split
   - Parquet output format for SageMaker
   - Property tests for data split proportions and output format

4. **Training Pipeline Handlers** (Tasks 6-8)
   - TrainHandler: SageMaker training job orchestration
   - EvaluateHandler: Model evaluation with accuracy threshold
   - DeployHandler: Production endpoint deployment
   - Comprehensive unit tests

5. **Inference Pipeline Handlers** (Tasks 10-13)
   - ScoreHandler: Real-time fraud scoring
   - StoreHandler: DynamoDB persistence
   - AlertHandler: High-risk transaction alerts
   - MonitorHandler: Distribution drift detection
   - Property tests for all handlers

6. **CDK Infrastructure** (Task 15)
   - TrainingPipelineStack with Glue job integration
   - InferencePipelineStack with DynamoDB and SNS
   - EventBridge schedules (weekly/daily)
   - IAM roles and policies

7. **Integration Tests** (Task 17)
   - End-to-end training pipeline test
   - End-to-end inference pipeline test
   - S3 orchestration validation

8. **Documentation** (Task 18)
   - Comprehensive README with architecture diagrams
   - Component catalog with detailed specifications
   - Deployment guides and troubleshooting
   - Example configuration files

### ✅ Test Results

- **Total Tests:** 79/79 passing (100%)
- **Inference Pipeline:** 56/56 passing
- **Training Pipeline:** 23/23 passing
- **Infrastructure:** 6/6 passing

### ✅ Deployment Status

- **Training Pipeline:** Successfully deployed to AWS
- **Inference Pipeline:** Successfully deployed to AWS
- **S3 Buckets:** Created with unique suffix `quannh0308-20260214`
- **Glue Job:** Configured and ready (pending service quota resolution)

## Known Limitations

### AWS Glue Service Quota
- **Issue:** Some AWS accounts have Glue concurrent job run limits set to 0
- **Impact:** Prevents Glue job execution
- **Affected Accounts:** Corporate/organizational AWS accounts with service restrictions
- **Workaround:** Request quota increase from AWS Support or use Lambda alternative

### Parquet File Testing
- **Issue:** Integration tests cannot easily mock Parquet file parsing
- **Impact:** One integration test has limited coverage for EvaluateHandler
- **Mitigation:** Unit tests provide comprehensive coverage of EvaluateHandler functionality

## Technical Specifications

### Glue Job Configuration
```json
{
  "Name": "fraud-detection-data-prep-dev",
  "Role": "arn:aws:iam::474957690766:role/fraud-detection-glue-role-dev",
  "Command": {
    "Name": "glueetl",
    "ScriptLocation": "s3://fraud-detection-glue-scripts-dev-474957690766/data-prep.py",
    "PythonVersion": "3"
  },
  "MaxCapacity": 5.0,
  "MaxRetries": 2,
  "AllocatedCapacity": 5
}
```

### Data Processing
- **Input:** CSV file (284,807 records, ~150 MB)
- **Output:** 3 Parquet files (train: ~140 MB, validation: ~30 MB, test: ~30 MB)
- **Processing Time:** ~15-20 minutes
- **Cost:** ~$0.22 per run (5 DPUs × $0.44/hour × 0.5 hours)

## Repository State

### Git Commit History
```
278427a - fix: import existing data bucket instead of creating new one
6ae0611 - feat: add cdk.json for CDK application configuration
42b565f - fix: remove duplicate code in deploy-training-pipeline.sh
cb4b734 - docs: add QUICK-START guide with exact commands
033ef65 - feat: make S3 bucket names configurable via BUCKET_SUFFIX
3a0dfee - fix: resolve final training pipeline integration test failure
d77f523 - fix: resolve training pipeline integration test failures
6c6b254 - chore: final checkpoint - fraud detection ML pipeline complete
```

### Key Files
- `glue-scripts/data-prep.py` - PySpark data preparation script
- `glue-scripts/test_data_prep_properties.py` - Property tests for data prep
- `infrastructure/src/main/kotlin/com/frauddetection/infrastructure/TrainingPipelineStack.kt` - CDK stack with Glue job
- `deploy-training-pipeline.sh` - Deployment script with Glue script upload

## Design Documents

All design decisions and requirements are documented in:
- `.kiro/specs/fraud-detection-ml-pipeline/requirements.md`
- `.kiro/specs/fraud-detection-ml-pipeline/design.md`
- `.kiro/specs/fraud-detection-ml-pipeline/tasks.md`

## Next Steps

### Immediate: Lambda Alternative
To work around Glue service quota limitations, the next version will:
- Replace Glue job with Lambda function for data preparation
- Maintain identical functionality and data processing logic
- Use pandas/scikit-learn in Lambda (same as Glue script)
- Increase Lambda memory to 10GB and timeout to 15 minutes

### Future Enhancements
- Model versioning and A/B testing
- Real-time streaming inference
- Enhanced monitoring dashboards
- Automated retraining triggers based on drift detection

## Conclusion

This Glue-based version represents a **production-ready, fully-tested implementation** of the fraud detection ML pipeline. All requirements have been met, all tests pass, and the infrastructure is deployed successfully.

The Glue job configuration is correct and would work in AWS accounts with Glue service quotas enabled. The upcoming Lambda alternative will provide the same functionality with broader compatibility.

---

**Milestone Achieved:** February 15, 2026  
**Team:** quannh0308  
**Project:** CEAP Fraud Detection ML Pipeline  
**Version:** 1.0.0-glue (Stable)

Commit message:

docs: update project documentation to reflect three-flow architecture (Experiment, Training, Inference)

MILESTONE-GLUE-VERSION.md, after:

# Milestone: Glue-Based Data Preparation (Stable Version)

**Date:** February 15, 2026  
**Version:** 1.0.0-glue  
**Status:** ✅ Stable - Fully Implemented and Tested

## Overview

This milestone marks the completion of the fraud detection ML pipeline with **AWS Glue** for data preparation. This version represents the original design as specified in the requirements and design documents.

> **📌 Evolution Note:** Since this milestone, the system has evolved to include a third flow — the **ML Experimentation Workflow** — which bridges data science exploration with the production pipeline. Data scientists use SageMaker Studio to experiment with hyperparameters and algorithms, then promote winning configurations to the Training Pipeline via Parameter Store and S3. See the root `README.md` for the current three-flow architecture.

## Architecture

### Training Pipeline (Standard Workflow)
```
┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐
│  DataPrep   │ -> │    Train    │ -> │  Evaluate   │ -> │   Deploy    │
│  (Glue Job) │    │  (Lambda)   │    │  (Lambda)   │    │  (Lambda)   │
└─────────────┘    └─────────────┘    └─────────────┘    └─────────────┘
```

### Key Components

**Data Preparation Stage:**
- **Technology:** AWS Glue (PySpark)
- **Script:** `glue-scripts/data-prep.py`
- **DPU Allocation:** 5 DPUs
- **Timeout:** 30 minutes
- **Functionality:**
  - Loads Kaggle Credit Card Fraud Detection dataset (284,807 records)
  - Splits data into train (70%), validation (15%), test (15%)
  - Writes prepared datasets to S3 in Parquet format
  - Validates data quality

**Why Glue Was Chosen:**
- Native PySpark support for large-scale data processing
- Serverless - no infrastructure management
- Optimized for ETL workloads
- Scales automatically for large datasets
- Industry-standard for ML data preparation

## Implementation Status

### ✅ Completed Features

1. **Core Data Models** (Task 2)
   - Transaction and ScoredTransaction classes
   - Workflow models (ExecutionContext, StageResult)
   - Property tests validating fraud score range

2. **WorkflowLambdaHandler Base Class** (Task 3)
   - S3 orchestration with convention-based paths
   - Error handling for S3 operations
   - Property tests for S3 conventions

3. **Glue Data Preparation Script** (Task 5)
   - PySpark implementation in `glue-scripts/data-prep.py`
   - 70/15/15 train/validation/test split
   - Parquet output format for SageMaker
   - Property tests for data split proportions and output format

4. **Training Pipeline Handlers** (Tasks 6-8)
   - TrainHandler: SageMaker training job orchestration
   - EvaluateHandler: Model evaluation with accuracy threshold
   - DeployHandler: Production endpoint deployment
   - Comprehensive unit tests

5. **Inference Pipeline Handlers** (Tasks 10-13)
   - ScoreHandler: Real-time fraud scoring
   - StoreHandler: DynamoDB persistence
   - AlertHandler: High-risk transaction alerts
   - MonitorHandler: Distribution drift detection
   - Property tests for all handlers

6. **CDK Infrastructure** (Task 15)
   - TrainingPipelineStack with Glue job integration
   - InferencePipelineStack with DynamoDB and SNS
   - EventBridge schedules (weekly/daily)
   - IAM roles and policies

7. **Integration Tests** (Task 17)
   - End-to-end training pipeline test
   - End-to-end inference pipeline test
   - S3 orchestration validation

8. **Documentation** (Task 18)
   - Comprehensive README with architecture diagrams
   - Component catalog with detailed specifications
   - Deployment guides and troubleshooting
   - Example configuration files

### ✅ Test Results

- **Total Tests:** 79/79 passing (100%)
- **Inference Pipeline:** 56/56 passing
- **Training Pipeline:** 23/23 passing
- **Infrastructure:** 6/6 passing

### ✅ Deployment Status

- **Training Pipeline:** Successfully deployed to AWS
- **Inference Pipeline:** Successfully deployed to AWS
- **S3 Buckets:** Created with unique suffix `quannh0308-20260214`
- **Glue Job:** Configured and ready (pending service quota resolution)

## Known Limitations

### AWS Glue Service Quota
- **Issue:** Some AWS accounts have Glue concurrent job run limits set to 0
- **Impact:** Prevents Glue job execution
- **Affected Accounts:** Corporate/organizational AWS accounts with service restrictions
- **Workaround:** Request quota increase from AWS Support or use Lambda alternative

### Parquet File Testing
- **Issue:** Integration tests cannot easily mock Parquet file parsing
- **Impact:** One integration test has limited coverage for EvaluateHandler
- **Mitigation:** Unit tests provide comprehensive coverage of EvaluateHandler functionality

## Technical Specifications

### Glue Job Configuration
```json
{
  "Name": "fraud-detection-data-prep-dev",
  "Role": "arn:aws:iam::474957690766:role/fraud-detection-glue-role-dev",
  "Command": {
    "Name": "glueetl",
    "ScriptLocation": "s3://fraud-detection-glue-scripts-dev-474957690766/data-prep.py",
    "PythonVersion": "3"
  },
  "MaxCapacity": 5.0,
  "MaxRetries": 2,
  "AllocatedCapacity": 5
}
```

### Data Processing
- **Input:** CSV file (284,807 records, ~150 MB)
- **Output:** 3 Parquet files (train: ~140 MB, validation: ~30 MB, test: ~30 MB)
- **Processing Time:** ~15-20 minutes
- **Cost:** ~$0.22 per run (5 DPUs × $0.44/hour × 0.5 hours)

## Repository State

### Git Commit History
```
278427a - fix: import existing data bucket instead of creating new one
6ae0611 - feat: add cdk.json for CDK application configuration
42b565f - fix: remove duplicate code in deploy-training-pipeline.sh
cb4b734 - docs: add QUICK-START guide with exact commands
033ef65 - feat: make S3 bucket names configurable via BUCKET_SUFFIX
3a0dfee - fix: resolve final training pipeline integration test failure
d77f523 - fix: resolve training pipeline integration test failures
6c6b254 - chore: final checkpoint - fraud detection ML pipeline complete
```

### Key Files
- `glue-scripts/data-prep.py` - PySpark data preparation script
- `glue-scripts/test_data_prep_properties.py` - Property tests for data prep
- `infrastructure/src/main/kotlin/com/frauddetection/infrastructure/TrainingPipelineStack.kt` - CDK stack with Glue job
- `deploy-training-pipeline.sh` - Deployment script with Glue script upload

## Design Documents

All design decisions and requirements are documented in:
- `.kiro/specs/fraud-detection-ml-pipeline/requirements.md`
- `.kiro/specs/fraud-detection-ml-pipeline/design.md`
- `.kiro/specs/fraud-detection-ml-pipeline/tasks.md`

## Next Steps

### Immediate: Lambda Alternative
To work around Glue service quota limitations, the next version will:
- Replace Glue job with Lambda function for data preparation
- Maintain identical functionality and data processing logic
- Use pandas/scikit-learn in Lambda (same as Glue script)
- Increase Lambda memory to 10GB and timeout to 15 minutes

### ✅ Completed Since This Milestone
- **ML Experimentation Workflow** — A Python-based experimentation toolkit (SageMaker Studio) for data scientists to explore, tune, and compare models. Includes ExperimentTracker, HyperparameterTuner, AlgorithmComparator, FeatureEngineer, ModelEvaluator, ProductionIntegrator, and ABTestingManager. Promotes winning configurations to the production training pipeline via Parameter Store and S3. See `ml-experimentation-workflow/README.md`.
- **Model versioning and A/B testing** — Implemented as part of the ML Experimentation Workflow via the ABTestingManager module, enabling controlled comparison of model variants before production promotion.

### Future Enhancements
- Real-time streaming inference
- Enhanced monitoring dashboards
- Automated retraining triggers based on drift detection

## Conclusion

This Glue-based version represents a **production-ready, fully-tested implementation** of the fraud detection ML pipeline. All requirements have been met, all tests pass, and the infrastructure is deployed successfully.

The Glue job configuration is correct and would work in AWS accounts with Glue service quotas enabled. The upcoming Lambda alternative will provide the same functionality with broader compatibility.

---

**Milestone Achieved:** February 15, 2026  
**Team:** quannh0308  
**Project:** CEAP Fraud Detection ML Pipeline  
**Version:** 1.0.0-glue (Stable)
